The Project Gutenberg EBook of Spring Morning, by Frances Cornford

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Spring Morning

Author: Frances Cornford

Release Date: September 30, 2019 [EBook #60396]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPRING MORNING ***




Produced by Barbara Watson, David T. Jones, Al Haines &
the online Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
http://www.pgdpcanada.net










  SPRING
  MORNING

  BY

  FRANCES CORNFORD

  (Woodcuts by G. Raverat)



  THE POETRY BOOKSHOP

  PRICE TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE

  NET





  SPRING MORNING
  BY
  FRANCES CORNFORD

  A NEW EDITION

  (_Third Thousand_)

  LONDON

  THE POETRY BOOKSHOP
  35 DEVONSHIRE STREET, THEOBALDS ROAD, W.C.
  1923





  CONTENTS

  SPRING MORNING                          5
  A RECOLLECTION                          6
  YOUTH AND AGE                           7
  A CHILD'S DREAM                         8
  TO A FAT LADY SEEN FROM THE TRAIN      10
  A WASTED DAY                           11
  IN FRANCE                              12
  THE OLD WITCH IN THE COPSE             13
  IN DORSET                              16
  THE WATCH                              17
  PEOPLE                                 18
  DAWN                                   19
  MOUNTAINS                              20
  A PEASANT WOMAN                        21
  AUTUMN MORNING AT CAMBRIDGE            22
  AUTUMN EVENING                         22
  AT NIGHT                               23



[Illustration: Spring morning]




  SPRING MORNING

  Now the moisty wood discloses
  Wrinkled leaves of primèroses,
  While the birds, they flute and sing:
  Build your nests, for here is Spring.

  All about the open hills
  Daisies shew their peasant frills,
  Washed and white and newly spun
  For a festival of sun.

  Like a blossom from the sky,
  Drops a yellow butterfly,
  Dancing down the hedges grey
  Snow-bestrewn till yesterday.

  Squirrels skipping up the trees
  Smell how Spring is in the breeze,
  While the birds, they flute and sing:
  Build your nests, for here is Spring.




  A RECOLLECTION

  My father's friend came once to tea.
  He laughed and talked. He spoke to me.
  But in another week they said
  That friendly pink-faced man was dead.

  "How sad . ." they said, "the best of men . ."
  So I said too, "How sad"; but then
  Deep in my heart I thought with pride,
  "I know a person who has died."




  YOUTH AND AGE

[Illustration: To Man's End]

  Say, is it dim and grim and all full of fear?
  Not at all, not at all, my pretty dear.
  Will there be no hope? Nothing to desire?
  You shall be comforted sitting by the fire.
  Will no one look at me? love me, if I please?
  You shall doze happy with a little bread and cheese.
  Even the springing grass--will it look pale?
  You shall be gladdened with a little warm ale.
  Shall I be trembling and querulous of tongue?
  You shall be wiser than anybody young.
  When the first thrushes sing, shall I not hear?
  Not at all, not at all, my pretty dear.




  A CHILD'S DREAM

[Illustration: Boy and dog]

  I had a little dog, and my dog was very small;
  He licked me in the face, and he answered to my call;
  Of all the treasures that were mine, I loved him most of all.

  His nose was fresh as morning dew and blacker than the night;
  I thought that it could even snuff the shadows and the light;
  And his tail he held it bravely, like a banner in a fight.

  His body covered thick with hair was very good to smell;
  His little stomach underneath was pink as any shell;
  And I loved him and honoured him, more than words can tell.

  We ran out in the morning, both of us, to play,
  Up and down across the fields for all the sunny day;
  But he ran so swiftly--he ran right away.

  I looked for him, I called for him, entreatingly. Alas,
  The dandelions could not speak, though they had seen him pass,
  And nowhere was his waving tail among the waving grass.

  I called him in a thousand ways and yet he did not come;
  The pathways and the hedges were horrible and dumb.
  I prayed to God who never heard. My desperate soul grew numb.

  The sun sank low. I ran; I prayed: "If God has not the power
  To find him, let me die. I cannot bear another hour."
  When suddenly I came upon a great yellow flower.

  And all among its petals, such was Heaven's grace,
  In that golden hour, in that golden place,
  All among its petals, was his hairy face.




  TO A FAT LADY SEEN FROM THE TRAIN

  O why do you walk through the fields in gloves,
    Missing so much and so much?
  O fat white woman whom nobody loves,
  Why do you walk through the fields in gloves,
  When the grass is soft as the breast of doves
    And shivering sweet to the touch?
  O why do you walk through the fields in gloves,
    Missing so much and so much?




  A WASTED DAY

  I spoiled the day;
    Hotly, in haste,
  All the calm hours
    I gashed and defaced.

  Let me forget,
    Let me embark
  --Sleep for my boat--
    And sail through the dark.

  Till a new day
    Heaven shall send,
  Whole as an apple,
    Kind as a friend.




  IN FRANCE

[Illustration: Poplars]

  The poplars in the fields of France
  Are golden ladies come to dance;
  But yet to see them there is none
  But I and the September sun.

  The girl who in their shadow sits
  Can only see the sock she knits;
  Her dog is watching all the day
  That not a cow shall go astray.

  The leisurely contented cows
  Can only see the earth they browse;
  Their piebald bodies through the grass
  With busy, munching noses pass.

  Alone the sun and I behold
  Processions crowned with shining gold--
  The poplars in the fields of France,
  Like glorious ladies come to dance.




  THE OLD WITCH IN THE COPSE

  I am a Witch, and a kind old Witch,
    There's many a one knows that--
  Alone I live in my little dark house
    With Pillycock, my cat.

  A girl came running through the night,
    When all the winds blew free:--
  "O mother, change a young man's heart
    That will not look on me.

  O mother, brew a magic mead
    To stir his heart so cold."
  "Just as you will, my dear," said I,
    "And I thank you for your gold."

  So here am I in the wattled copse
    Where all the twigs are brown,
  To find what I need to brew my mead
    As the dark of night comes down.

  Primroses in my old hands,
    Sweet to smell and young,
  And violets blue that spring in the grass
    Wherever the larks have sung.

  With celandines as heavenly crowns
    Yellowy-gold and bright;
  All of these, O all of these,
    Shall bring her Love's delight.

  But orchids growing snakey green
    Speckled dark with blood,
  And fallen leaves that curled and shrank
    And rotted in the mud,

  With blistering nettles burning harsh
    And blinding thorns above;
  All of these, O all of these
    Shall bring the pains of Love.

  Shall bring the pains of Love, my Puss,
    That cease not night or day,
  The bitter rage, nought can assuage
    Till it bleeds the heart away.

  Pillycock mine, my hands are full,
    My pot is on the fire.
  Purr, my pet, this fool shall get
    Her fool's desire.




  IN DORSET

[Illustration: Dorset scene]

  From muddy road to muddy lane
  I plodded through the falling rain;
  For miles and miles was nothing there
  But mist, and mud, and hedges bare.

  At length approaching I espied
  Two gipsy women side by side;
  They turned their faces broad and bold
  And brown and freshened by the cold,
  And stared at me in gipsy wise
  With shrewd, unfriendly, savage eyes.

  No word they said, no more dared I;
  And so we passed each other by--
  The only living things that met
  In all those miles of mist and wet.




  THE WATCH

  I wakened on my hot, hard bed;
  Upon the pillow lay my head;
    Beneath the pillow I could hear
    My little watch was ticking clear.
    I thought the throbbing of it went
    Like my continual discontent;
    I thought it said in every tick:
    I am so sick, so sick, so sick;
  O death, come quick, come quick, come quick,
  Come quick, come quick, come quick, come quick.




  PEOPLE

  Like to islands in the seas,
  Stand our personalities--
  Islands where we always face
  One another's watering place.
  When we promenade our sands
  We can hear each other's bands,
  We can see on festal nights
  Red and green and purple lights,
  Gilt pavilions in a row,
  Stucco houses built for show.

  But our eyes can never reach
  Further than the foolish beach,
  Never can they hope to win
  To the fastnesses within:
  Rocks unsealed that watch the sky
  And the tormented clouds go by;--
  Darkest forests full of gleams
  Ever-passing;--pouring streams;--
  Chasms where a Monster lowers;--
  Sweet and unimagined flowers.




  DAWN

  So begins the day,
  Solid, chill, and gray,
  But my heart will wake
  Happy for your sake;
  No more tossed and wild,
  Singing like a child,
  Quiet as a flower
  In this first gray hour.

  So my heart will wake
  Happy, for your sake.




  MOUNTAINS

[Illustration: Mountains]

  Mountains, mountains in the morning,
  Great beasts backed with stainless snow,
  Rocks which even the hawks have not visited,
  Vast blue shadows climbing up their gullies,
  Magnificence, magnificence of blue shadows.

  Child unknown who shall be mine hereafter,
  Your heart, too, shall leap at sight of the mountains,
  The peaks and their shadows in the morning
  --Uncaring for me or for any man--
  Even as my heart has leapt, uncaring.




  A PEASANT WOMAN

  I saw you sit waiting with your sewing on your knees,
  Till a man should claim the comfort of your body
  And your industry and presence for his own.

  I saw you sit waiting with your sewing on your knees,
  Till the child growing hidden in your body
  Should become a living creature in the light.

  I saw you sit waiting with your sewing on your knees,
  Till your child who had ventured to the city
  Should return to the shelter of his home.

  I saw you sit waiting with your sewing on your knees
  --Your unreturning son was in the city--
  Till Death should come along the cobbled street.

  I saw you sit waiting with your sewing on your knees.




  AUTUMN MORNING AT CAMBRIDGE

  I ran out in the morning, when the air was clean and new,
  And all the grass was glittering, and grey with autumn dew,
  I ran out to the apple tree and pulled an apple down,
  And all the bells were ringing in the old grey town.

  Down in the town, off the bridges and the grass
  They are sweeping up the leaves to let the people pass,
  Sweeping up the old leaves, golden-reds and browns,
  While the men go to lecture with the wind in their gowns.




  AUTUMN EVENING

  The shadows flickering, the daylight dying,
  And I upon the old red sofa lying,
  The great brown shadows leaping up the wall,
  The sparrows twittering; and that is all.

  I thought to send my soul to far-off lands,
  Where fairies scamper on the windy sands,
  Or where the autumn rain comes drumming down
  On huddled roofs in an enchanted town.

  But O my sleepy soul, it will not roam,
  It is too happy and too warm at home:
  With just the shadows leaping up the wall,
  The sparrows twittering; and that is all.




  AT NIGHT

[Illustration: Night]

  On moony nights the dogs bark shrill
  Down the valley and up the hill.

  There's one is angry to behold
  The moon so unafraid and cold,
  Who makes the earth as bright as day,
  But yet unhappy, dead, and gray.

  Another in his strawy lair
  Says: "Who's a-howling over there?
  By heavens I will stop him soon
  From interfering with the moon."

  So back he barks, with throat upthrown:
  "You leave our moon, our moon alone."
  And other distant dogs respond
  Beyond the fields, beyond, beyond.











End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Spring Morning, by Frances Cornford

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPRING MORNING ***

***** This file should be named 60396-0.txt or 60396-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/9/60396/

Produced by Barbara Watson, David T. Jones, Al Haines &
the online Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
http://www.pgdpcanada.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

